When somebody tells you something that
is confusing on a subject you know
nothing about, you are statistically
more likely to to buy into that
definition and that that line of
thinking because you had a fresh
perspective. You didn't have an opinion
on it already. So like Mark Twain has an
expression, it is easy to fool a man. It
is almost impossible to convince a man
that he's been fooled. So they're going
to grab a hold of something you've never
heard of. They're going to tell you,
"Oh, you really need this." And the
truth is, you don't.
[music]
Hi, my name is John Jish. I'm a doctor
of biomedical engineering, which gives
me a unique perspective beyond what
you're probably used to here on YouTube.
Now, today I want to talk about the
Forbes list that just came out on the
best preworkouts of [music] 2025.
Now, let me just start by saying Forbes
is a magazine that does financial
analysis and reporting on the happenings
of US business, different markets,
equities market or commodities markets,
things like that. You might assume it
would be strange that they want to weigh
in on sports nutrition since that's not
really their expertise. And oh boy does
this list show that they don't know what
they're talking about. But it's okay. A
lot of these lists that you see, this
isn't true 100% of the time, but it's
probably true 50% of the time. A lot of
these companies will pay their like pay
to get on the list. And I I think that's
why these lists don't really have much
of a market effect. But if you happen
upon one of my I want you to just keep
in mind that they're all written
strategically to encourage you to buy
whatever the product is they're writing
about. Uh they don't really trash
anybody's product, but they're often
collecting a fee from whoever is selling
this. And I just want to go over four
that four different ones that I noticed
on the list that I just sort of
scratched my head over. And and in
general, the list is laughable. Uh but
let's get started. So the first one uh
it's from Transparent Labs. It's called
Bulk
Preworkout, which uh you might assume is
loaded with sugar, but it's not even
though it's called bulk. I think they
mean you get bulk pricing. And it's 55
bucks for a month supply. Ingredients
are caffeine, beta alanine, elanine,
citrine,
uh malate, and yeah. And that's it. So
beta alanine is awesome because it
almost amplifies what caffeine does
without having you take in a lot of
caffeine. And this has 200 milligrams
which is the same that I put in my own
preworkout called Imperium. Now that one
is an appetite suppressant also because
it uses powdered MCT oil. So I think
mine's better, but hey, I'm biased. Uh
but this one it it doesn't look
particularly bad. And also, you'll
notice I don't mention my pre-workout
product or anybody's pre-workout product
very often because ultimately it's
really just a caffeine delivery
mechanism. So, you know, if you like
coffee, that's cool. You don't really
need a pre-workout if you like that. And
also, there's no other junk that's going
to end up in coffee. Like, if there's
sugar in your coffee, it's cuz you put
it there
and you shouldn't. And in pre-work
workouts, sometimes
it's
a staggering amount of artificial
sweeteners, sometimes it's sugar,
sometimes it's both, which is a real
head scratcher. But that that's what I
got to say about bulk. The next one is
called PreX,
and
this one has 300 milligs of caffeine.
Now I my philosophy on caffeine is you
want to try to see if you can get the
same effect of whatever caffeine you
take in now with 50 milligrams a day
because if you switch to 50 which is
like a tiny amount like like that's just
you know that much coffee in your coffee
cup like h you know obviously maybe 4
ounces of of coffee. So that's going to
give you 50 mg of caffeine. And when
your body adjusts to that, it will have
the same effect of whatever caffeine
you're used to right now. So the the
saturation point of caffeine and the
maximum effect of caffeine really just
has to do with passing a certain
threshold and then what you're
accustomed to. So if you're accustomed
to 800 milligrams and you take in 50
milligrams, you're going to be feeling
tired for about two weeks. And then that
will be the new homeostasis. That's what
your body's looking for. And you can you
you're adapted to the 50 milligs. In
that space in between, you'll probably
get headaches. The headaches are not
from a caffeine deficiency.
That's not a thing. It's because
caffeine is a vasoc constrictor. So it
tightens up on the blood vessels. So
they the every time your heart tries to
pump blood, that wave that happens where
there's a visceral muscle contraction
pushing the wave away from the heart,
there's already a partial contraction.
So instead of completely contracting and
releasing,
there's a bottleneck to blood flow. Now,
there's a feedback mechanism to the
heart that says, "Uh-oh, we're not
getting blood as far as we should with
each aortic wave. Therefore,
we need to increased heart rate." And
that's the energy you [music] get from a
vasoc constrictor like caffeine or
nicotine. So, you know, immediately you
have a couple sips of coffee, okay, I'm
ready to start my day. But just keep in
mind, you can do that with a tiny amount
of caffeine and that's what you should
do. So, even pre-workouts, like when I
see 300 milligrams of caffeine, like
no, you know, I I maybe like a third of
a dose, you get 100. I don't know. Just
seems like overkill to me. And, you
know, the beta alanine's cool because
that lets you get even more out of
caffeine.
But maybe just for argument sake, if you
if you did like this one, you could save
a ton of money because you got to figure
out what uh 16th of a dosage is and you
could really stretch this out. But I
mean, you're probably going to mix it in
a shot glass because it's not going to
be much material. Next one is called
Pulse. Uh and it says best preworkout
for variety.
I'm not even going to read any further
than that because I think variety is
something you seek
if you don't have a problem being
overweight and being stuck there
forever.
Like that's to me that's like a toxic
word. Variety. No, you should not seek
variety. You should seek the same thing
every day so you can stick to your
principles and look at food like it's
fuel because that's what it is. Like you
wouldn't put sugar in your gas tank of
your car just to be fun cuz it would
ruin your car. Well, the same thing's
happening to your body. You just have
taste as a variable. And most people
have very very little self-control. And
also, most people don't realize just how
damaging
some of these junk food things are. So,
like, don't seek variety. So, that I
mean, as soon as I saw that word, it was
just like a visceral like, oh, I already
don't like you. But the rest of the
ingredients, they're the same as
everything else. This one has 350 millig
of caffeine
uh per serving. So, yeah, they really
want to get the kids addicted to this
one. Uh because obviously once you start
having scoops of this, your body's used
to a higher level of caffeine and that's
a business strategy that they have. Like
I lowdosed caffeine in Imperium because
I that's the healthier thing to do. I
want people to be used to a lower level
so they get more out of it and they're
not creating any knock-on cardiac
problems
in the future just because they're used
to such a high level. These guys
obviously don't subscribe to that.
Now, uh, the last one, and I I saved the
best, which really means worst for last.
Uh, so this is the best preworkout for
muscle gain. Hm. How is it going to help
you gain muscle? That's interesting. So,
this one has it's two top ingredients,
caffeine and creatine,
which cancel each other out. And there's
plenty of research on that. So, you
don't get the benefits of caffeine, and
you don't get the benefits of creatine
when you take them together.
And okay, there's a couple of essential
amino acids in here, but
you need all of them, not just a couple,
for muscle gain. And this says it's for
muscle gain. So, [music] and maybe they
say it's for muscle gain because it has
creatine in it, but once again, one of
the other ingredients screws up the
creatine. So, this particular
pre-workout,
uh, I wouldn't take for free. It's
completely garbage. And also, just keep
in mind, don't get your nutrition advice
from a finance magazine. I would say
stay subscribed to this channel and I'll
point out what are the good things, what
are the bad things, and what are the
things that matter because I think
ultimately when you make a poor decision
in picking a supplement, [music]
it's because you're told something that
matters that really doesn't matter.
That's a that's a common way marketers
grab your attention and misdirect you
without anybody calling them out for
lying. They just get you to be obsessed
with something that doesn't matter. I
could give examples of uh in in
throughout human history. Carbon, for
example, we're told that it causes
global warming. It actually doesn't, and
it's what plants breathe. So, uh the
higher the carbon in the atmosphere, the
greener the forests are and the faster
plants grow. So, that's just like a a
great example of how marketers used
something
that you weren't completely versed in
and they victimized you by lying about
what it was and what it does.
And I think a lot of times in nutrition
the same tactic is deployed so that
you're you become confused. And because
when somebody tells you something that
is confusing on a subject you know
nothing about, you are statistically
more likely to to buy into that
definition and that that line of
thinking because you had a fresh
perspective. You didn't have an opinion
on it already. So, like Mark Twain has
an expression, it is easy to fool a man.
It is almost impossible to convince a
man that he's been fooled. So, they're
going to grab a hold of something you've
never heard of, they're going to tell
you, "Oh, you really need this." [music]
And the truth is, you don't. So, things
to keep in mind. I hope this helps.
Comment uh any questions. If if there's
a particular pre-workout you'd like me
to review, put it in the comments and
we'll see you on the next video. If this
video helped you, I want you to
subscribe and follow. I'm going to put
out videos on a regular basis. I think
they're going to help a whole lot of
people. Especially if you're one of
those people that doesn't just instantly
grow from lifting regular weights. We've
got the answer for you. [music]